# Investigating the Relationship Between Cooking Time and Ratings
Author: Nadine Orriss
## Overview
This data science project, conducted at UCSD, explores the relationship between the average rating of recipes and their cooking times. 
## Introduction
In a world where time is precious, how do people choose what to cook? Are quick and easy recipes the key to satisfaction, or does effort still pay off in the kitchen?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the time spent on cooking and food preparation has decreased over the decades. In 1965, Americans spent an average of 112 minutes per day cooking, compared to 53 minutes per day in 2022. The average American works approximately 34.6 hours per week, spends an average of 27.6 minutes commuting one way to work, and over 60% of households have both partners working. People have busy schedules—driven by work commitments, commute times, and family responsibilities—which results in less time for cooking.
So, is there a strong preference for recipes that are quick and easy to prepare, and are they rated higher than their laborious, time-consuming counterparts? That is what I aim to answer in my analysis. The results of this could help Food Network and other recipe networks adapt to the shifting attitudes of Americans and cater to their evolving lifestyle demands. To do so, we are analyzing two datasets consisting of recipes and ratings posted since 2008 on Food.com. The original purpose of the datasets was for the recommender system research paper, Generating Personalized Recipes from Historical User Preferences by Majumder et al.
